Document Quiz (#40)
ScootKit/scnx-docs: docs/custom-bot/modules/fun/quiz.md

<ModuleOverview moduleName="quiz" />

## Features {#features}
Easily create quizzes on your server, let your members compete on a leaderboard and automatically let them answer the specified amount of questions per day.

## Setup {#setup}

> First step is to simply enable the module in [your SCNX dashboard](https://scnx.app/glink?page=bot/modules?query=quiz&ref=scnx-app-docs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First step is to simply enable the module in [your SCNX dashboard](https://scnx.app/glink?page=bot/modules?query=quiz&ref=scnx-app-docs) and [configure the module](#configuration).
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Configuration {#configuration}
```

| Mode for quiz selection       | How the next `/quiz play` quiz for a user is choosen: If set to "Random", every time the user uses the command, they'll receive any quiz from the quiz pool created in the bot configuration. Note that this may cause repeated questions more often. The other option is "Continuous", which tells your bot to just count up in the list of quiz and always choose the next one available, until the end is reached and the bot starts over again. |
| Live preview of results       | Whether the answers of the users on public quiz are shown live instead of only after the quiz ended.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |

### Strings {#config-strings}

The [strings](https://scnx.app/glink?page=bot/configuration?file=quiz%7Cstrings) configuration allows you to customize the output messages of the module.

> 

Reviewer: Please add detailed description of the keyed fields, view [staff list / configuration / embed](https://docs.scnx.xyz/docs/custom-bot/modules/administration/team-list#configuration) as an example.

| `/quiz play`                                                                                                       | Play a private quiz configured in the CustomBot configuration.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `/quiz leaderboard`                                                                                                | Shows the leaderboard which displays the total and daily points of the top users.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |

## Troubleshooting {#troubleshooting}

> 

Reviewer: Please add possible thorubleshooting steps here, such as:
* Quiz messages not being sent due to invalid configuration (such as a wrong color value)
* Lederboard message not being sent due to e.g. other messages in the channel
* Wrong emoji configuration
* …

> Got a question which isn't answered here? Join the [support server](https://sc-net.work/dc-en) and create a post in the `support` forum.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Got a question which isn't answered here? Join the [support server](https://scootk.it/dc) and create a post in the `support` forum.
```
scootk.it will automatically redirect based on user language

## Stored data {#data-usage}

The following data is being stored about every quiz created using the bot:

* The ID of the quiz message
* The description/question of the quiz
* List of options
* List of votes
* Date of last possible answer, if any
* The channel ID of the channel the giveaway was started in
* Whether users can change their vote or not
* Whether the quiz was started publicly in a channel (similar to a poll) or privately using the `/quiz play` command
* Which kind of quiz it is (for yes/no questions)
* Metadata about the entry (date when created and last updated)

The bot also stores the following data about every user that has participated in a quiz:
* The user ID of the user
* The amount of experience points (correct answers) they have in total
* The amount of experience points they have today
* The amount of quiz they've answered today
* If random quiz sorting is disabled, the ID of the next quiz they will be shown
* Metadata about the entry (date when created and last updated)

> Every day at 00:01 local time at the bot host location, the amount of quiz users done on the day before are removed from the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every day at 00:01 based on your bot timezone, the amount of quiz users done on the day before are removed from the database.
```
Users can configure their timezone in the build in configuration

Author: ...and that changes how cronjobs work?
If you are sure this is how it works, this has to be changed in the [starboard documentation](https://docs.scnx.xyz/docs/custom-bot/modules/community/starboard#:~:text=local%20time%20at%20the%20bot%20host%20location) too.

Reviewer: When a timezone configuration is being set, the global `process.TZ` value [is being set](https://github.com/ScootKit/CustomDCBot/blob/93e607d48b77cd3142e491923859bd7be0c72c33/main.js#L109), which affects [process.env](https://nodejs.org/dist/latest-v8.x/docs/api/process.html#process_process_env) which changes [environ](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/environ.7.html). 
node-scheduler, the library in use, does not actually use the os [cron](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron) interface, instead accepts crone expression like strings and runs a time to time operations - refer to the [module page](https://www.npmjs.com/package/node-schedule) for details. As such, the [Date](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Date) class of Javascript is being used, which adjusts timezone based on the `process.TZ` variable.

Reviewer: We could also leave out the exact time stamp and use say something like "Once a day", as most users are unlikely to care about exact timing (also at scale it might make sense to run operations like this at times of low processing demand, instead of a fixed time).
(Also: Free feel to correct me if I said something wrong in my previous statement)
